1.Finely powder the cornflakes in a mixer and keep in a bowl.Mix all the powders given under “ Spice powder” and set aside.( If u are using raw corn flakes,microwave it in high power for 1.5 minutes & then powder it)

2.Wash and soak poha in hot water for 20 minutes.Then crush & squeeze it with ur hands very well.It will become a dough like thing.Keep it covered & set aside.

3.Pressure cook potatoes,peel the skin,mash it well.Cook the peas and keep it ready.Chop the carrots and keep it in hot water till use.Chop onions.

4.In a kadai,heat oil and saute onions,crushed garlic cloves till onion turns transparent.Now add the carrot and saute till its soft.Add some salt to quicken the cooking process.
Lastly add the mashed potato and cooked peas.Add little water & let the carrot cook for some time.After carrots are cooked & water is absorbed,add the spice powder mix.
Adjust salt.Mix well & Mash it with the back of ladle.Finally add the soaked & squeezed poha and maida.Mix well.Poha & maida acts as a binding agent here.
So mash it really well and make the entire mixture to a thick dough. Switch off the flame & let it cool.

5.After the mixture is cooled down,wrap it in a polythene sheet like a cylinder as shown in the picture.Cover the edges using a rubber band.Refrigerate it for 30 minutes to 1 hour.
After 30 minutes,remove the patty dough and roll it tightly.Cut it into roundels.Refer picture below.The size of the patty should be the size of burger.
Roll the patty on the kitchen counter or a plate to bring uniform thickness and to make a perfect round.

6.In the mean time,prepare the batter & bread crumbs.To prepare bread crumbs,remove the corners i.e brown part of the bread and powder it in a mixie.Set aside in  a plate.Homemade instant bread crumbs is ready.
For the batter,mix all the ingredients given under “ for batter” and add little water to make a thick dosa batter consistency.Keep it ready.

7.Now dip the patty and in maida batter.Again dip in bread crumbs.Repeat the same once again.Yes,u have to coat it twice to get a super crispy exterior.

8.Now heat oil to deep fry and check the temperature by dropping a pinch of batter.If it comes up,simmer the flame completely and drop the patty.If the heat of the oil is high,patty will burn.
So take care.Cook only in low flame till they turn golden brown in both the sides.Flip it whenever needed.Deep fry,remove & drain in a tissue.Repeat the same procedure and keep all the patties ready.

9.For arranging the burger : Take the burger bun and slit into two roundels.Toast in dosa pan by drizzling oil or butter.Take one portion of the bun and apply mayonnaise using a spoon.

10.Wash and chop lettuce & celery.Place some of them on the bun.Now keep the patty.Above the patty keep some lettuce leaves,tomato slice & cheese slice.Cover it with another portion of toasted bun.
( i applied mayonnaise on both the portions of bun as we love it that way)Adjust the quantity of mayonnaise as per ur taste.You can also keep some onion rings,tomato slices & cheese slices if u like.
